This lecture we are going to look at, nano nano is a very basic ed that we are going to be using to
edit various configuration files.
Nano is a very basic ed that is installed by default on most Linux distributions.
We will be using Nano to edit various configuration files throughout the course.
Nano has shortcuts for saving quiting searching.
The most common shortcuts are listed at the bottom of the screen.
When you look at the bottom of Nano, you see what are called the carrot shortcuts.
The carrot symbol is short for control, for example, to exit control ICS, to search for a particular
term.
We use control w those are the carrot shortcuts.
The most common shortcuts are the ones that you see at the bottom of the screen.
There are a lot more for a list of shortcuts that NENO offers.
You can use control G that will open a list of shortcuts at the top.
You can see the carrot shortcuts further down.
You see the M shortcuts.
That's not the letter M instead of using control and the letter you would use out and the letter, if
you look at the bottom, the shortcuts have changed.
We want to exit Nanos, help control X throughout the course.
We will only be using three shortcuts control X, that is to exit.
If you open a file and you make changes to the file, if you then exit, you will be prompted to save
the changes you've made to the file exactly the same as when you use the word processor.
If it's a very large file, you can periodically save your file using control to write out or save the
file.
We will also be using control w where is that is to search for a particular term.
So we have the correct shortcuts that are displayed at the bottom of the screen.
Those refer to the control button.
You have your M shortcuts, not the letter M.
It is referring to using the alt button MAC users neno an assault on a Mac keyboard.
Do not work on a Mac.
You would press escape.
We won't be using any alt shortcuts in this course.
Only three of the carrot shortcuts control X to exert control over safe control.
W to search to start using NENO on the command line.
All you would do is type nenna.
We will be using NENO to edit existing files.
The command is almost the same NENO followed by the path to the file.
In this lecture we looked at NENO.